# 3. EMERGENCY PROCEDURE

## **3.1 Introduction**

This Section contains checklists as well as descriptions of the recommended procedures in case of an emergency.

Emergencies caused by motor or system malfunctions are extremely rare if pre-flight inspections and maintenance are performed properly.

## **3.2 Emergency Procedures**

## **3.2.1 Motor Failures**

Operation is not possible with one motor, electronic speed control, or propeller failure. In any instance that the aircraft experiences failure to one or more of these critical flight components, immediately warn bystanders that an aircraft is coming down and clear the area. No specific electronic user interface indicator is currently available, however aircraft attitude control of aircraft will be lost, accompanied by altitude loss.&#x20;

## **3.2.2 Electrical Power Failure**

### **Battery Exhaustion**

The Meadowhawk will automatically enable Return-to-Launch if the battery voltage falls below 17V.  If there is not enough battery capacity to make it to the original launch point, the aircraft will land immediately.

## **3.2.3 Avionics System Failure**

### **Pilot Loss of Aircraft Orientation**

If the pilot loses visual orientation of the Meadowhawk, red indicators are on the front of the drone and green indicators are on the back. If these cannot be seen, enable Return-to-Launch until you can verify the aircrafts orientation. An avionics system failure will result in the aircraft receiving a RC Failsafe error and the aircraft will Return-to-Launch.

### **Unexpected Flight Controller Behavior**

If the aircraft ever acts unexpectedly, immediately enable the Return-to-Launch flight mode.

## **3.2.4 Control Station Failure**

|                           |                  |
| ------------------------- | ---------------- |
| ​ Control Station Battery | Check            |
| Control Station Antenna   | Reposition       |
| Flight Mode               | Return-to-Launch |

Loss of Signal (LOS) can occur if the radio controller stops transmitting a signal, or if the Meadowhawk is too far away to receive it. In the event the Meadowhawk detects a LOS, it will automatically execute a Return-to-Launch. While the Meadowhawk includes these emergency control modes, it is always recommended to attempt to regain signal link with the Meadowhawk to keep the pilot in control of the aircraft.&#x20;

* Move the antenna orientation for best signal strength.&#x20;
* Ensure the radio antenna matches the direction of the receiver antenna.&#x20;
* Move the radio away from objects to get a clear line-of-sight to the Meadowhawk.&#x20;
* Set the Mode switch to Return-to-Launch so the Meadowhawk will continue to approach the launch point if the signal is momentarily regained, resulting in higher likelihood of regaining full signal reception.

## **3.2.5 Data Link Communication Failures**

### **Loss of Video Signal**

The video signal is highly dependent on the mission environment as well as the overall distance from the screen. Enable Return-to-Launch until the video signal is established. If the problem persists, ensure that the video antennas on both the aircraft and video monitors are securely attached.
